## Identifying files and directories.
***
- If you are in the directory `/home/repl`, the relative path seasonal specifies the same directory as the absolute path `/home/repl/seasonal`.

- If you are in the directory `/home/repl/seasonal`, the relative path `winter.csv` specifies the same file as the absolute path `/home/repl/seasonal/winter.csv`.

#### Use `ls` with a relative path to list the file that has an absolute path of `/home/repl/course.txt` (and only that file).

```bash
$ ls course.txt
```

## How can I move to another directory?
***
- You are in `/home/repl/`. Change directory to `/home/repl/seasonal` using a relative path.

```bash
cd seasonal/
```

#### Use `pwd` to check that you're there.

```bash
pwd
```

#### Use `ls` without any paths to see what's in that directory.
```bash
ls
```

## How can I move up a directory?
***
- If you are in `/home/repl/seasonal`, then `cd ..` moves you up to `/home/repl`. If you use `cd ..` once again, it puts you in `/home`. One more `cd ..` puts you in the root directory `/`, which is the very top of the filesystem. (Remember to put a space between `cd` and `..`  it is a command and a path, not a single four-letter command.)

- A single dot on its own,  `.`, always means "the current directory", so `ls` on its own and `ls .` do the same thing, while `cd .` has no effect (because it moves you into the directory you're currently in).

One final special path is `~` (the tilde character), which means "your home directory", such as `/home/repl`. No matter where you are, `ls ~` will always list the contents of your home directory, and `cd ~` will always take you home.


## How can I copy files?
***
One command to do this is `cp`, which is short for "copy". If `original.txt` is an existing file, then:

```bash
cp original.txt duplicate.txt
```

creates a copy of original.txt called duplicate.txt. 

If the last parameter to cp is an existing directory, then a command like:
```bash
cp seasonal/autumn.csv seasonal/winter.csv
``` 
backup copies all of the files into that directory.

## How can I move a file?
While cp copies a file, mv moves it from one directory to another, just as if you had dragged it in a graphical file browser.

The command:
```bash
mv autumn.csv winter.csv ..
```
moves the files autumn.csv and winter.csv from the current working directory up one level to its parent directory (because .. always refers to the directory above your current location).

## How can I rename files?
`mv` can also be used to rename files. If you run:
```bash
mv course.txt old-course.txt
```
then the file course.txt in the current working directory is "moved" to the file old-course.txt. This is different from the way file browsers work, but is often handy.


## How can I delete files?
We use `rm`, which stands for "remove". As with `cp` and `mv`, you can give `rm` the names of as many files as you'd like, so:

```bash
rm thesis.txt backup/thesis-2017-08.txt
```

removes both thesis.txt and backup/thesis-2017-08.txt

## How can I create and delete directories?
You can use a separate command called `rmdir`. For added safety, it only works when the directory is *empty*, so you must delete the files in a directory before you delete the directory. (Experienced users can use the -r option to rm to get the same effect.)