## How can I view a file's contents?
***
The simplest way to do this is with `cat`, which just prints the contents of files onto the screen. (Its name is short for **"concatenate"**, meaning **"to link things together"**, since it will print all the files whose names you give it, one after the other.
```bash
cat agarwal.txt
```

## How can I view a file's contents piece by piece?
***
When you `less` a file, one page is displayed at a time; you can press spacebar to page down or type q to quit.

If you give less the names of several files, you can type `:n` (colon and a lower-case 'n') to move to the next file, `:p` to go back to the previous one, or `:q` to quit.

```bash
less seasonal/spring.csv seasonal/summer.csv 
```
Press spacebar to page down, :n to go to the second file, and :q to quit.

## How can I look at the start of a file?
***
We can do this in the shell using a command called `head`. As its name suggests, it prints the first few lines of a file (where "a few" means 10), so the command:
```bash
head seasonal/summer.csv
```
displays
```text
Date,Tooth
2017-01-11,canine
2017-01-18,wisdom
2017-01-21,bicuspid
2017-02-02,molar
2017-02-27,wisdom
2017-02-27,wisdom
2017-03-07,bicuspid
2017-03-15,wisdom
2017-03-20,canine
```

## How can I type less?
***
One of the shell's power tools is **tab completion**. If you start typing the name of a file and then press the tab key, the shell will do its best to auto-complete the path.

## How can I control what commands do?
***
If you run the command:

```bash
head -n 3 seasonal/summer.csv
```

`head` will only display the first three lines of the file. 

A flag's name usually indicates its purpose (for example, -n is meant to signal "number of lines"). Command flags don't have to be a - followed by a single letter, but it's a widely-used convention.

## How can I list everything below a directory?
***
In order to see everything underneath a directory, no matter how deeply nested it is, you can give `ls` the flag `-R` **(which means "recursive")**. 

To help you know what is what, `ls` has another flag `-F` that prints a `/` after the name of every directory and a `*` after the name of every runnable program.

```
ls -R -F
```

## How can I get help for a command?
We use the `man` command (short for "manual")
For example, the command 
```bash
man head
```
brings up this information:
```text
HEAD(1)               BSD General Commands Manual              HEAD(1)

NAME
     head -- display first lines of a file

SYNOPSIS
     head [-n count | -c bytes] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     This filter displays the first count lines or bytes of each of
     the specified files, or of the standard input if no files are
     specified.  If count is omitted it defaults to 10.

     If more than a single file is specified, each file is preceded by
     a header consisting of the string ``==> XXX <=='' where ``XXX''
     is the name of the file.

SEE ALSO
     tail(1)
```

`man` automatically invokes less, so you may need to press spacebar to page through the information and `:q` to quit.

#### Use `tail` with the flag `-n +7` to display all but the first six lines of `seasonal/spring.csv.`


## How can I select columns from a file?
***
`head` and `tail` let you select rows from a text file. If you want to select columns, you can use the command `cut`. It has several options, but the most common is something like:

```sh
cut -f 2-5,8 -d , values.csv
```
which means **"select columns 2 through 5 and columns 8, using comma as the separator"**. 

`cut` uses `-f` **(meaning "fields")** to specify columns.

`-d` **(meaning "delimiter")** to specify the separator. You need to specify the latter because some files may use spaces, tabs, or colons to separate columns.


## What `cut` can't do.

What is the output of 

```bash
cut -d : -f 2-4
```
```bash
second:third
```

`history` will print a list of commands you have run recently. Each one is preceded by a serial number to make it easy to re-run particular commands:
just type !55 to re-run the 55th command in your history (if you have that many). You can also re-run a command by typing an exclamation mark followed by the command's name, such as !head or !cut, which will re-run the most recent use of that command.


## How can I select lines containing specific values?

`head` and `tail` select `rows`, `cut` selects `columns`, and `grep` selects `lines according to what they contain`. 

In its simplest form, `grep` takes a piece of text followed by one or more filenames and prints all of the lines in those files that contain that text. For example, 

```bash
grep bicuspid seasonal/winter.csv
```
prints lines from `winter.csv` that contain `"bicuspid"`.

`grep` can search for patterns as well; we will explore those in the next course. What's more important right now is some of grep's more common flags:

- -c: print a count of matching lines rather than the lines themselves
- -h: do not print the names of files when searching multiple files
- -i: ignore case (e.g., treat "Regression" and "regression" as matches)
- -l: print the names of files that contain matches, not the matches
- -n: print line numbers for matching lines
- -v: invert the match, i.e., only show lines that don't match


Print the contents of all of the lines containing the word molar in seasonal/autumn.csv by running a single command while in your home directory. Don't use any flags.

```bash
cat seasonal.autumn.csv | grep molar
```

Invert the match to find all of the lines that don't contain the word molar in seasonal/spring.csv, and show their line numbers. Remember, it's considered good style to put all of the flags before other values like filenames or the search term "molar".

```bash
grep -v -n molar seasonal/spring.csv
```

Count how many lines contain the word incisor in autumn.csv and winter.csv combined. (Again, run a single command from your home directory.)

```bash
grep -c incisor seasonal/autumn.csv seasonal/winter.csv
```

## Why isn't it always safe to treat data as text?
