## How can I edit a file?
***

Unix has a bewildering variety of text editors. For this course, we will use a simple one called `Nano`. If you type nano filename, it will open filename for editing (or create it if it doesn't already exist). 

You can move around with the arrow keys, delete characters using backspace, and do other operations with control-key combinations:

- Ctrl + K: delete a line.
- Ctrl + U: un-delete a line.
- Ctrl + O: save the file ('O' stands for 'output'). You will also need to press Enter to confirm the filename!
- Ctrl + X: exit the editor.


Run `nano names.txt` to edit a new file in your home directory and enter the following four lines:
```text

Lovelace
Hopper
Johnson
Wilson
```

To save what you have written, type `Ctrl + O` to write the file out, then `Enter` to confirm the filename, then `Ctrl + X` to exit the editor.

## How can I save commands to re-run later?

You have been using the shell interactively so far. But since the commands you type in are just text, you can store them in files for the shell to run over and over again. 

To start exploring this powerful capability, put the following command in a file called `headers.sh`

```bash
head -n 1 seasonal/*.csv
```

## How can I re-use pipes?
A file full of shell commands is called a `shell script`, or sometimes just a `script` for short.

Scripts can also contain `pipes`. For example, if `all-dates.sh` contains this line:

```bash
cut -d, -f 1 seasonal/*.csv | grep -v Date | sort | uniq
```
then:
```bash
bash all-dates.sh > dates.out
```
will extract the unique dates from the seasonal data files and save them in `dates.out`.

## How can I pass filenames to scripts?

A script that processes `specific files` is useful as a record of what you did, but one that allows you to process `any files` you want is more useful.

To support this, you can use the special expression `$@` (dollar sign immediately followed by at-sign) to mean `all of the command-line parameters given to the script`.

For example, if `unique-lines.sh` contains 
```bash 
sort $@ | uniq
```
, when you run:

```bash  
unique-lines.sh seasonal/summer.csv
```

the shell replaces `$@` with `seasonal/summer.csv` and processes one file. If you run this: 

```bash 
unique-lines.sh seasonal/summer.csv seasonal/autumn.csv
```

it processes two data files, and so on.

## How can I write loops in a shell script?
Shell scripts can also contain loops. You can write them using semi-colons, or split them across lines without semi-colons to make them more readable:

```bash
# Print the first and last data records of each file.
for filename in $@
do
    head -n 2 $filename | tail -n 1
    tail -n 1 $filename
done
```

## What happens when I don't provide filenames?
A common mistake in shell scripts (and interactive commands) is to put filenames in the wrong place. If you type:

```bash
tail -n 3
```
then since `tail` hasn't been given any filenames, it waits to read input from your keyboard. This means that if you type:

```bash
head -n 5 | tail -n 3 somefile.txt
```

then tail goes ahead and prints the last three lines of `somefile.txt`, but `head` waits forever for keyboard input, since it wasn't given a filename and there isn't anything ahead of it in the pipeline.
