## Getting started with csvkit.
`csvkit` is a suite of command-line tools for data processing on the command line.
It offers data processing and cleaning capabilities on CSV files that rival Python, R and SQL.

`in2csv` is used to convert files to CSV.
***
```bash
in2csv SpotifyData.xlsx > SpotifyData.csv
```
converts the first sheet of the xlsx file to csv format.

Use `--names` or `-n` option to print all sheet names.
***
```bash
in2csv -n SpotifyData.xlsx
```

Specify the sheet to be converted to csv format.
***
```bash
in2csv SpotifyData.xlsx --sheet "Worksheet1_Popularity" > Spotify_Popularity.csv
```

`csvlook` is used for data preview on the command line.
***

```bash
csvlook Spotify_Popularity.csv
```

`csvstat` prints a descriptive summary statistics for each column of a csv file.
***

```bash
csvstat Spotify_Popularity.csv
```

## Filtering data using csvkit.
We can create a subset of the original data file by:
1. Filtering data by column with `csvcut`
2. Filtering data by row with `csvgrep`

`csvcut` filters and truncates CSV files by **column_name** or **column_position**
***

```bash
csvcut -c 'track_id' SpotifyMusicAttributes.csv #return first column by name.
csvcut -c 1 SpotifyMusicAttributes.csv #return first column by position.

csvcut -c 2,3 SpotifyMusicAttributes.csv #return second and third column by position.
```
`csvgrep` is used to filter data by row value.

Its flags are:
1. `-m`: followed by the exact row value to filter.
2. `-r`: followed by a regex pattern.
3. `-f`: followed by the path to a file.

Find in `Spotify_Popularity.csv` where `track_id` = `5RCPsfzm`
***

```bash
csvgrep -c track_id -m 5RCPsfzm Spotify_Popularity.csv
```

## Stacking data and chaining commands with csvkit.
The `csvstack` command stacks the rows of two or more CSV files together. This is often used when you have files in the same schema but have been downloaded in chunks due to to download restrictions such as API request restrictions.

Stack two similar files `Spotift_Rank6.csv` and `Spotift_Rank7.csv` into one file.
***
```bash
csvstack Spotift_Rank6.csv Spotift_Rank7.csv > Spotift_AllRanks.csv
```
It's not always clear how to trace back which row in the final stacked file came from which source file. To keep a record of the source of the data row, use csvstack's option `-g` followed by a user entered value to create a source column called `group`.
***

```bash
csvstack -g "Rank6","Rank7" \
Spotift_Rank6.csv Spotift_Rank7.csv > Spotift_AllRanks.csv
```

### Chaining command-line commands.
`;` links commands together and runs sequentially.
***
```bash
csvlook SpotiftData_All.csv; csvstat SpotiftData_All.csv
```

`&&` links connamds together, but only runs the second command if the first succeeds.
***
```bash
csvlook SpotiftData_All.csv && csvstat SpotiftData_All.csv
```

Reformat`csvcut's` output by piping the output as input to `csvlook`.
***
```bash
csvcut -c "track_id","danceability" Spotify_Popularity.csv | csvlook
```

Use the output of csvsort as input to csvlook.
***
```bash
csvsort -c 2 Spotify_Popularity.csv | csvlook
```

Take top 15 rows from sorted output and save to new file.
***
```bash
csvsort -c 2 Spotify_Popularity.csv  | head -n 15 > Spotify_Popularity_Top15.csv
```

Preview the new file.
***
```bash
csvlook Spotify_Popularity_Top15.csv
```