## In comes the `data engineer`.
***
#### Imagine this: you've been hired as a data scientist at a young startup. Tasked with predicting customer churn, you want to use a fancy machine learning technique that you have been honing for years. However, after a bit of digging around, you realize all of your data is scattered around many databases. 


#### Additionally, the data resides in tables that are optimized for applications to run, not for analyses. To make matters worse, some legacy code has caused a lot of the data to be corrupt. In your previous company, you never really had this problem, because all the data was available to you in an orderly fashion. You're getting desperate. 

#### **In comes the data engineer to the rescue.**

#### It is the data engineer's task to make your life as a data scientist easier. Do you need data that currently comes from several different sources?

#### No problem, the data engineer `extracts` data from these sources and `loads` it into one single database ready to use. 

#### At the same time, they've `optimized` the database scheme so it becomes faster to query. They also `removed` corrupt data. In this sense, the data engineer is one of the most valuable people in a data-driven company that wants to scale up.

###  Definition of the job.
***

#### Back in 2015, DataCamp published an infographic on precisely this: who does what in the data science industry. In this infographic, we described a data engineer as `an engineer that develops, constructs, tests, and maintains architectures such as databases and large-scale processing systems.`

#### A lot has changed since then, but the definition still holds up. The data engineer is focused on processing and handling massive amounts of data, and setting up clusters of machines to do the computing.


### Data Engineer vs Data Scientist.
***

#### Typically, the tasks of a data engineer consist of:

#### 1. Developing a scalable data architecture.
#### 2. Streamlining data acquisition.
#### 3. Setting up processes that bring data together from several sources.
#### 4. Safeguarding data quality by cleaning up corrupt data.


#### Typically, the data engineer also has a deep understanding of cloud technology. They generally are experienced using cloud service providers like AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud. 

#### Compare this with the tasks of a data scientist, who spend their time mining for patterns in data, applying statistical models on large datasets, building predictive models using machine learning, developing tools to monitor essential business processes, or cleaning data by removing statistical outliers.

#### Data scientist typically have a deep understanding of the business itself.



## Tools of a data engineer.
***

### Databases.

#### First, data engineers are expert users of database systems. Roughly speaking, a database is a computer system that holds large amounts of data. 

### Processing.

#### Second, data engineers use tools that can help them quickly process data. Processing data might be necessary to clean or aggregate data or to join it together from different sources. 

### Scheduling.

#### Third, scheduling tools help to make sure data moves from one place to another at the correct time, with a specific interval. Data engineers make sure these jobs run in a timely fashion and that they run in the right order. 

### Existing tools.

#### Two examples of databases are MySQL or PostgreSQL. 

#### An example processing tool is Spark or Hive. 

#### Finally, for scheduling, we can use Apache Airflow, Oozie, or we can use the simple bash tool: cron.

## A `data pipeline`.
***

#### A data pipeline extracts all data through connections with several databases, transforms it using a cluster computing framework like Spark, and loads it into an analytical database. Also, everything is scheduled to run in a specific order through a scheduling framework like Airflow. A small side note here is that the sources can be external APIs or other file formats too. 