## How can I store a command's output in a file?
***
You can use `redirection` to save any command's output anywhere you want. If you run this command:
```bash
head -n 5 seasonal/summer.csv
```
It prints the first 5 lines of the summer data on the screen. If you run this command instead:

```bash
head -n 5 seasonal/summer.csv > top.csv
```
Nothing appears on the screen. Instead, head's output is put in a new file called `top.csv`. 


## How can I use a command's output as an input?
***
Suppose you want to get lines 3-5 from one of our data files. You can start by using `head` to get the `first 5 lines` and `redirect` that to a file, and then use `tail to select the last 3:`

```bash
head -n 5 seasonal/winter.csv > top.csv
tail -n 3 top.csv
```

## What's a better way to combine commands?
***
Using redirection to combine commands has two drawbacks:

1. It leaves a lot of intermediate files lying around (like top.csv).
2. The commands to produce your final result are scattered across several lines of history.

The shell provides another tool that solves both of these problems at once called a `pipe`.

Instead of sending head's output to a file, add a vertical bar and the tail command without a filename:

```bash
head -n 5 seasonal/summer.csv | tail -n 3
```

Use `cut` to select all of the `tooth` names from column `2` of the comma delimited file `seasonal/summer.csv`, then `pipe` the result to grep, with an inverted match, to exclude the header line containing the word "Tooth". cut and grep were covered in detail in Chapter 2, exercises 8 and 11 respectively.

```bash
cut -d , -f 2 seasonal/summer.csv | grep -v Tooth
```

## How can I combine many commands?
***
You can chain any number of commands together. For example, this command:
```bash
cut -d , -f 1 seasonal/spring.csv | grep -v Date | head -n 10
```
will:

1. Select the first column from the spring data;
2. Remove the header line containing the word "Date"; and
3. Select the first 10 lines of actual data.

## How can I count the records in a file?
***
The command `wc` (short for `word count`) prints the number of `characters, words, and lines` in a file. You can make it print only one of these using 
```bash
-c, -w, or -l 
```
respectively.
Count how many records in seasonal/spring.csv have dates in July 2017 (2017-07).

To do this, use grep with a partial date to select the lines and pipe this result into wc with an appropriate flag to count the lines.
```bash
grep 2017-07 seasonal/spring.csv | wc -l
```

## How can I specify many files at once?
***
You can get the first column from all of the seasonal data files at once like this:
```bash
cut -d , -f 1 seasonal/winter.csv seasonal/spring.csv seasonal/summer.csv seasonal/autumn.csv
```
But typing the names of many files over and over is a bad idea. To make your life better, the shell allows you to use `wildcards` to specify a list of files with a single expression. 
The most common wildcard is `*`

```bash
cut -d , -f 1 seasonal/*
```

Write a single command using head to get the first three lines from both `seasonal/spring.csv` and `seasonal/summer.csv`

```bash
head -n 3 seasonal/s*
```
## What other wildcards can I use?
***

The shell has other wildcards as well, though they are less commonly used:
1. `?` matches a single character, so `201?.txt` will match `2017.txt` or `2018.txt`, but not `2017-01.txt`.

2. `[...]` matches any one of the characters inside the square brackets, so `201[78].txt` matches `2017.txt` or `2018.txt` but not `2016.txt`

3. `{...}` matches any of the comma-separated patterns inside the curly brackets, so `{*.txt, *.csv}` matches any file whose name ends with `.txt` or `.csv`, but not files whose name ends with `.pdf`.


Which expression would match `singh.pdf` and `johel.txt` but not `sandhu.pdf` or `sandhu.txt`?

```bash
{singh.pdf, j*.txt}
```


## How can I sort lines of text?
As its name suggests, `sort` puts data in order. By default it does this in `ascending alphabetical` order, but the flags `-n` and `-r` can be used to sort `numerically` and `reverse` the order of its output, while `-b` tells it to `ignore leading blanks` and `-f` tells it to `fold case`.

Starting from this recipe, sort the names of the teeth in seasonal/winter.csv (not summer.csv) in descending alphabetical order. To do this, extend the pipeline with a sort step.

```bash
cut -d, -f 2 seasonal/winter.csv | grep -v Tooth | sort -r
```

## How can I remove duplicate lines?
***

Another command that is often used with sort is `uniq`, whose job is to `remove duplicated lines`. More specifically, it removes **adjacent duplicated lines**.

Write a pipeline to:

- Get the second column from seasonal/winter.csv.
- Remove the word "Tooth" from the output so that only tooth names are displayed.
- Sort the output so that all occurrences of a particular tooth name are adjacent.
- Display each tooth name once along with a count of how often it occurs.


```bash
cut -d, -f 2 seasonal/winter.csv | grep -v Tooth | sort | uniq -c
```

## How can I save the output of a pipe?
***
The shell lets us redirect the output of a sequence of piped commands:
```bash
cut -d , -f 2 seasonal/*.csv | grep -v Tooth > teeth-only.txt
```

However, `>` must appear at the end of the pipeline: if we try to use it in the middle, like this:
```bash
cut -d , -f 2 seasonal/*.csv > teeth-only.txt | grep -v Tooth
```
then all of the output from cut is written to `teeth-only.txt`, so there is nothing left for `grep` and it waits forever for some input.

# Excercises.
1. Use `wc` with appropriate parameters to list the number of lines in all of the seasonal data files. (Use a wildcard for the filenames instead of typing them all in by hand.)

```bash
wc -l seasonal/*.csv
```

2. Add another command to the previous one using a `pipe` to remove the line containing the word "total".

```bash
wc -l seasonal/*.csv | grep -v total
```

3. Add two more stages to the pipeline that use sort -n and head -n 1 to find the file containing the fewest lines.

```bash
wc -l seasonal/*.csv | grep -v total | sort -n | head -n 1 21 seasonal/autumn.csv
```