## How does the shell store information?
***
Like other programs, the shell stores information in variables. Some of these, called `environment variables`, are available all the time. 

Environment variables' names are conventionally written in upper case, and a few of the more commonly-used ones are shown below.


| **Variable**     | **Purpose**                       | **Value**             |
| -------------    | -------------                     | --------              |
| `HOME`           | User's home directory             | `/home/repl`          |
| `PWD`            | Present working directory         | Same as `pwd` command |  
| `SHELL`          | Which shell program is being used.| `/bin/bash`           |
| `USER`           | User's ID                         | `repl`                |


To get a complete list (which is quite long), you can type `set` in the shell.

Use `set` and `grep` with a `pipe` to display the value of `HISTFILESIZE`, which determines how many old commands are stored in your command history. What is its value?

```bash
set | grep HISTFILESIZE
```

## How can I print a variable's value?
***
A simpler way to find a variable's value is to use a command called `echo`, which prints its arguments.

The variable `OSTYPE` holds the name of the kind of operating system you are using. Display its value using echo.

```bash
echo $OSTYPE
```

## How else does the shell store information?
***
The other kind of variable is called a `shell variable`, which is like a local variable in a programming language.

To create a shell variable, you simply assign a value to a name:

```bash
training=seasonal/summer.csv
```

Define a variable called `testing` with the value `seasonal/winter.csv`.

```bash
testing=seasonal/winter.csv
```

Use `head -n 1 SOMETHING` to get the first line from `seasonal/winter.csv` using the value of the variable testing instead of the name of the file.

```bash
head -n 1 $testing
```

## How can I repeat a command many times?
***

Shell variables are also used in `loops`, which repeat commands many times. If we run this command:

```bash
for filetype in gif jpg png; do echo $filetype; done
```

it produces:

```text
gif
jpg
png
```

Notice these things about the loop:

- The structure is `for `…variable… `in` …list… ; `do` …body… `; done`
- The list of things the loop is to process (in our case, the words `gif`, `jpg`, and `png`).
- The variable that keeps track of which thing the loop is currently processing (in our case, `filetype`).
- The body of the loop that does the processing (in our case, `echo $filetype`).

```bash
for filetype in docx odt pdf; do echo $filetype; done
```

## How can I repeat a command once for each file?
***

You can always type in the names of the files you want to process when writing the loop, but it's usually better to use wildcards.

Modify the wildcard expression to `people/*` so that the loop prints the names of the files in the `people` directory regardless of what suffix they do or don't have. 

Please use filename as the name of your loop variable.

```bash
for filename in people/*; do echo $filename; done
```
## How can I record the names of a set of files?
***
People often set a variable using a wildcard expression to record a list of filenames. For example, if you define datasets like this:

```bash
datasets=seasonal/*.csv
```

you can display the files' names later using:

```bash
for filename in $datasets; do echo $filename; done
```
If you run these two commands in your home directory, how many lines of output will they print?

```bash
files=seasonal/*.csv
for f in $files; do echo $f; done
```

Four: the names of all four seasonal data files.